So now let's talk about dynamic references
in CloudFormation.
So we can store values in Systems Manager Parameter Store
or we can store secrets in Secrets Manager.
And we can actually reference these values
into your CloudFormation templates.
The idea is that CloudFormation
is going to retrieve the value of the specified references
during any create, update or delete operations.
For example, you may want to retrieve the master password
of a RDS Database Instance from Secrets Manager.
So here's an example. We have CloudFormation.
We're going to get either a value from the Parameter Store
or Secrets Manager by using the key.
So this supports three kinds.
It supports ssm for plaintext values stored
into the Systems Manager Parameter Store,
it supports ssm-secure for secure strings stored
in the Systems Manager Parameter Store,
and finally, it supports secretsmanager
for the secret value stored in the Secrets Manager service.
The syntax to resolve one of these values
is to use }
So for SSM, we have }.
And here's the example.
So we have an Amazon S3 bucket
and for the access control settings,
we want to resolve it directly
from the SSM Parameter Store.
We have SSM Secure, so this time,
it's to store actual secrets value,
but from within the Parameter Store.
And so it's the same syntax.
But instead of ssm, you have ssm-secure
because we know that the value is encrypted.
And here is IAM user
and it turns out the password of this IAM user
is resolved from within the Parameter Store
as a secure parameter.
And finally, for Secrets Manager,
here we have an RDS Database Instance,
and we resolve the master username and the master password
directly from the Secrets Manager service
by using, again, the dynamic references in the syntax
that I just wrote above,
which is pretty long but very explicit.
So dynamic references are super important.
Now there is two other things you need to know
for the integration of CloudFormation
and Secrets Manager and RDS.
So it turns out that if you create a stack like this
which has a RDS Database cluster,
which is, for example, aurora,
and we have ManageMasterUserPassword: true,
that means that the secrets behind that aurora database
is going to be created implicitly.
That means that the RDS service itself
is going to create a secret in Secrets Manager
to manage the Master User Password and its rotation.
And so, to get the value of the secret ARN,
what you need to do is, in the output,
you use the GetAtt intrinsic function
to get the secret ARN from the Master User secret.
So here in this example,
CloudFormation only manages an RDS Database
and the RDS Database manages the secret in Secrets Manager.
The other way is to use a dynamic reference,
just like we saw.
So this time, we actually create a secret
from within our CloudFormation template.
And as you can see,
there is the GenerateStringKey for password,
which means that it's going to automatically generate
a secret password for us from within CloudFormation.
Next, we have our database instance,
which is going to reference the secret
in the RDS Database Instance
using the resolve function
we just saw through dynamic reference.
And so that means that the database instance
is going to leverage the secret out of Secrets Manager.
And finally, to link these two things together
and make sure there is a password rotation,
you create a secret RDS attachment
to let the database know that it should be linked
to this secret in Secrets Manager
so that the secret can rotate over time
and the RDS Database automatically updated.
And that's it!
You know everything about dynamic references
and CloudFormation with Parameter Store
and Secrets Manager.
So I hope you liked it,
and I will see you next lecture.